##  PML4DC @ ICLR 2020

## Practical ML for Developing Countries: learning under limited/low resource scenarios

The constant progress being made in artificial intelligence needs to extend across borders if we are to democratize AI in developing countries. Adapting the state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods to resource constrained environments such as developing countries is challenging in practice. Recent breakthroughs in natural language processing (NLP), for instance, rely on increasingly complex and large models (e.g. most models based on transformers such as BERT, VilBERT, ALBERT, and GPT-2) that are pre-trained in on large corpus of unlabeled data. In most developing countries, low/limited resources means hard path towards adoption of these breakthroughs. Methods such as transfer learning will not fully solve the problem either due to bias in pre-training datasets that do not reflect real test cases in developing countries as well as the prohibitive cost of fine-tuning these large models. Recent progress with focus given to ML for social good has the potential to alleviate the problem in part. However, the themes in such workshops are usually application driven such as ML for healthcare and for education, and less attention is given to practical aspects as it relates to developing countries in implementing these solutions in low or limited resource scenarios. This, in turn, hinders the democratization of AI in developing countries. As a result, we aim to fill the gap by bringing together researchers, experts, policy makers and related stakeholders under the umbrella of practical ML for developing countries. The workshop is geared towards fostering collaborations and soliciting submissions under the broader theme of practical aspects of implementing machine learning (ML) solutions for problems in developing countries. We specifically encourage contributions that highlight 
challenges of learning under limited or low resource environments that are typical in developing countries.


## Keynote Speakers

- Jake Porway (DataKind, Founder & Exec Director, NY, USA, confirmed)
- Aisha Walcott Bryant (IBM, Research Scientist, Kenya, confirmed)
- David Sengeh (CIO of DST&I, Sierra Leone, confirmed)
- Sarah Hooker (Google Brain and Delta Analytics, CA, USA, confirmed)


### Commitment to Diversity

We expect the workshop topic and its focus areas would attract a wide range of participants such as ML researchers, industry professionals, government stakeholders, policymakers, healthcare workers, social scientists, and educators. We believe the practical solutions for developing countries coincide well with the historic first time a major conference being held in Africa. This will help attract a large pool of local talent that are directly affected by the problem this workshop is aimed at solving. Moreover, this demographic is the most underrepresented in the field of AI/ML. With most of the organizers of the workshop having previous experience in organizing diversity and inclusion workshops such as Black in AI and the Deep Learning Indaba, utmost effort will be made to attract a diverse group. Specifically, the invited speakers, oral speakers, panelists will be selected taking demographics balance into account. The organizers and program committee members have already diverse sets of backgrounds. Among the four confirmed invited speakers listed above, we made an effort to balance by gender, geography and background. We have a list of 10 tentatively confirmed invited speakers including the 4 listed in the tentative schedule. We also already have a pool of program committee members selected for the workshop. 